# Solar-Energy-Prediction-and-Forecasting
This following is the Abstract from my research paper:

The growing shift towards sustainability sees solar energy at its center, incentivizing world energy leaders to exploit the energy source’s benefits. However, harnessing the potential of solar power comes with a few challenges. Predicting and forecasting solar energy output plays a quintessential role in overcoming these challenges, including determining the optimum locations for solar production and managing energy demand requirements. Thus, this paper explores the extent to which we can improve the performance of a prediction model and forecast the future power output of solar panels. To achieve this aim, a highly curated dataset from Kaggle was procured. This dataset comprised of weather conditions, solar power output and even solar irradiance data. To further improve the quality of the data being used for the research, the data was processed to fill in any absent data points and identify anomalies. Using this data the paper focuses on two models – Prediction and Forecasting. Previous research work has successfully established prediction algorithms for solar power; however, they have not attained maximum accuracy, and none have centered forecasting future output. For prediction and forecasting, multiple models such as Tree-based models, AdaBoost, and Metal earner have been tested to derive the greatest accuracy for the desired task. The key findings of the research indicate two things. First, that the accuracy of the prediction models cannot be increased by a lot after reaching a particular value (R2 Score of 0.682) unless there are changes in the extensiveness of the data available. Second, that forecasting models can be successfully created and trained to yield numerical values of the power output up to a day in advance.

To read the entire research paper please click on this link: https://nhsjs.com/2023/solar-energy-prediction-and-forecasting/
